DVCI-121: Gem readme (#70)
dvci/health_cards: README.md

# HealthCards

![Build](https://github.com/dvci/health_cards/actions/workflows/ruby.yml/badge.svg)
![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/a99a88d28ad37a79dbf6/maintainability)

> ![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/a99a88d28ad37a79dbf6/test_coverage)

Author: Those were meant to be placeholder badges; we need to setup a codeclimate account to get badges for this repo or get the badges from codecov (which I don't have access to)

This repository includes a Ruby gem for [SMART Health Cards](https://smarthealth.cards/) **and** a reference implementation for the [Vaccine Credential Initiative Implementation Guide](http://build.fhir.org/ig/dvci/vaccine-credential-ig/branches/main/). Go to the [Health Card Gem](#health-card-gem) to read about the Ruby library or go to the [Reference Implementation](#reference-implementation) section to try a ready-to-use rails application. 

## Reference Implementation

> The reference implementation here is a Ruby on Rails application that showcases both the Issuer side for creating SMART Health Cards and the Verifier side for confirming someone's vaccination status or laboratory test result. There are three endpoints for the representation and communication of a SMART Health Card. One is a QR Code that may digital (in pdf format) or printed for physical handout. On the verifier side the QR code may be scanned and verified by a webcam. The second endpoint is a `*.smart-health-card` file that may be digitally transferred and used by other SMART-compatable applications. The third endpoint is a `$health-card-issue` FHIR operation that other FHIR v4.0.1 compatable applications can use as a microservice API call.

Reviewer: Do you mean "One is a QR Code that may _be_ digital"?

Author: fixed

> The reference implementation here is a Ruby on Rails application that showcases both the Issuer side for creating SMART Health Cards and the Verifier side for confirming someone's vaccination status or laboratory test result. There are three endpoints for the representation and communication of a SMART Health Card. One is a QR Code that may digital (in pdf format) or printed for physical handout. On the verifier side the QR code may be scanned and verified by a webcam. The second endpoint is a `*.smart-health-card` file that may be digitally transferred and used by other SMART-compatable applications. The third endpoint is a `$health-card-issue` FHIR operation that other FHIR v4.0.1 compatable applications can use as a microservice API call.

Reviewer: Capitalize "PDF" in the 3rd sentence

Author: fixed

> The reference implementation here is a Ruby on Rails application that showcases both the Issuer side for creating SMART Health Cards and the Verifier side for confirming someone's vaccination status or laboratory test result. There are three endpoints for the representation and communication of a SMART Health Card. One is a QR Code that may be digital (in PDF format) or printed for physical handout. On the verifier side the QR code may be scanned and verified by a webcam. The second endpoint is a `*.smart-health-card` file that may be digitally transferred and used by other SMART-compatable applications. The third endpoint is a `$health-card-issue` FHIR operation that other FHIR v4.0.1 compatable applications can use as a microservice API call.

Reviewer 2: It's easier to discern the supported features with a bulleted list. Included reference to specification for readers seeking more information.

```suggestion
The reference implementation is a Ruby on Rails application with Issuer capabilities for creating SMART Health Cards and Verifier capabilities for confirming an individuals vaccination status or laboratory test results.

This Issuer supports the three defined [methods of retrieving a SMART Health Card](https://spec.smarthealth.cards/#user-retrieves-health-cards):

* via a `*.smart-health-card` file
* via a QR code
* via FHIR `$health-card-issue` operation

The Verifier supports scanning QR codes.
```

Author: fixed

> ### Dependencies
>  - Ruby 2.7 (prior versions may work but are not tested for)
>  - [Bundler](https://bundler.io)
>  - [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com)
>  - Rails 6.1

Reviewer 2: This isn't a comprehensive list of dependencies. I think it would be more appropriate as `System Requirements` (e.g. [Synthea's installation docs](https://github.com/synthetichealth/synthea#installation)) that conveys what the user has to have installed on their system and not things like Rails which Ruby/Bundle will handle installation of.

```suggestion
### System Requirements
 - Ruby 2.7 (prior versions may work but are not tested)
 - [Bundler](https://bundler.io)
 - [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)
 - [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com)
```

### Quick Start

Clone and cd into this repository:

`git clone https://github.com/dvci/health_cards.git && cd health_cards`

> 

Reviewer 2: Since this is meant to be instructional let's break out the `git clone` and `cd` onto separate lines to make it clear what's going on. i.e.:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/dvci/health_cards.git
cd health_cards
```

Author: fixed

Setup environment:

> `bundle install`
> 
> `bin/rails yarn:install`
> 
> `bin/rails db:prepare`

Reviewer 2: Rails provides [`bin/setup`](https://github.com/dvci/health_cards/blob/main/bin/setup) which does all this. Also to keep consistency with the recommendation in the `Development` section.

```suggestion
`bin/setup`
```

Run server:

`bin/rails server`

> Then go to http://127.0.0.1:3000 to view the locally running application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then go to `http://127.0.0.1:3000` to view the locally running application.
```

> ## Health Card Gem

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Health Cards Gem
```

> Health Cards is a Ruby gem that implements [SMART Health Cards](https://smarthealth.cards), a secure and decentralized framework that allows people to prove their vaccination status or medical test results. It is built on top of [FHIR R4](https://hl7.org/FHIR/) health data exchange standards and converts clinical data into a [JWS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON_Web_Signature) which may then be embedded into a QR code, exported to a `*.smart-health-card` file, or returned by a `$health-card-issue` FHIR operation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Health Cards is a Ruby gem that implements [SMART Health Cards](https://smarthealth.cards), a framework for sharing verifiable clinical data with [HL7 FHIR](https://hl7.org/FHIR/) and [JSON Web Signatures (JWS)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7515) which may then be embedded into a QR code, exported to a `*.smart-health-card` file, or returned by a `$health-card-issue` FHIR operation.
```

> This library conforms to the [SMART Health Cards: Vaccination & Testing Implementation Guide](http://build.fhir.org/ig/dvci/vaccine-credential-ig/branches/main/), and a reference implementation in rails can be found [here](https://github.com/dvci/health_cards).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This library also natively supports [SMART Health Cards: Vaccination & Testing Implementation Guide](http://build.fhir.org/ig/dvci/vaccine-credential-ig/branches/main/) specific cards.
```

And then execute:

```
 $ bundle install
```

Or install it yourself as:

```
 $ gem install health_cards
```

### Usage

```ruby
# Create issuer
private_key = HealthCards::Key.generate_key

> issuer = HealthCards::Issuer.new(key: private_key)

Reviewer 2: Get rid of this code snippet and just point to `USAGE.md`. Having this documentation in two different places is just an opportunity to have something go out of date.

Author: fixed

# Create health card
medical_data = FHIR::Bundle.new # populate with patient data
health_card = issuer.create_health_card(medical_data)

# Issue JWS
jws = issuer.issue_jws(medical_data)

# Create verifier
verifier = HealthCards::Verifier.new

# Verify JWS
verifier.verify(jws) # => true
```

See more usage examples in [USAGE.md](https://github.com/dvci/health_cards/blob/master/lib/USAGE.md). See full documentation in [API.md](https://github.com/dvci/health_cards/blob/master/lib/API.md).

## Development

> First make your own fork or clone of this repository, then run `bin/setup` or `bundle install` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake test` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Fork or clone this repository, then run `bin/setup` or `bundle install` to install dependencies. Run tests with `rake test`. Access an interactive prompt for experimentation with `bin/console`.
```

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the HealthCards project's codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/dvci/health_cards/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

> 
> 

Reviewer 2: Remove excess newlines (one is ok)
```suggestion
```
